day - 1
-----------
procedural programming lang - top down approach
object oriented prog lang - bottom up approach
bottom up means smaller modules are developed first and depending on the requirement they are combined to develope larger things.
they are relatively older prog lang compared to java
very first ver of java prog lang - jdk 1.0
latest ver jse 14
java was developed by sun microsystems . c and c++ were developed in at&t
syntactical structure of c has been taken from c and oo concept has been borrowed from java.
portability made java immensely popular, bytecode played major role.
internet is collection of heterogeneous platforms.
after we get the bytecode, it needs to be interpreted to run the prog.
recommended book - Java Fundamentals by Schildt and Skrien
alternative - Java - The Complete Reference by Schildt
byte code is a combination of an optimized set of instr to be executed in java virtual machine.
byte code has been designed in such a way that it can be executed irrespective of platform
if a machine has jvm installed then that system will be able to interpret bytecode
jvm is available along with java runtime environment
a src code in java has extenson .java and bytecode has extension .class
compiled time environment in java
java apis class files
every class in java is by default implicitly sub class of object class
the main method in java is parametrized. string array is provided to take command line args.
portability can be inter machine or intra machine
portability is nothing but involvement of multiuser system, computer nw. 
host os is nothing but the os of the currently running machine on which current apps will be executed
host os provides necessary system files to jvm to execute.
for execution of program jre is required and it's a foreign app. so main needs to be public. so that it can be accessed from outside the main class.
there's something called package which works like header file. in java ther's a default package that is language.
09.11.2020
----------
String functions:
length() compareTo() equals() compareToIgnoreCase() startsWith() endsWith() charAt() lastIndexOf() indexOf()
isEmpty() regionMatches()
assignment : input an array of strings through command line args
and arrange them in lexicographically
-----------
20.11.2020
-----------
inheritance
only one base class is required for inheritance. there's no concept of direct multiple inheritance. using interface we can implement multi inheritance.
derived class - sub class, base class - super class
in c++ we had private protected public access specifier
diff between private protected public.
in java we have one extra access specifier, default
concept of package is imp.
same package subclass - path is same
same package non sub class - has a relationship
this concept is called association. creating object of one class inside another class.
extend keyword is used to inherit members of one class to another class.
-------------
23.11.2020
--------------
dynamic method dispatch
objects are created in the time of execution.
abstract method and class
final keyword
abstract and final can't be used together. it's illogical.
abstract class can have constructors. it's used to initialize the data members of abstract class using super keywords from sub classes.
interface
an interface contains both data memebers and member functions. member functions are by default abstract
all the data memebers are final and static.
interface members are by default public
assignment - 
ther is a super class has a member req methods to initialize members. there are two sub classes. one will find out all the prime factors and other one will find out all the prime nos <= no.